unkind: so like, we wanted the game to be like, randomly generated overworld, with towns/quests and lots of places to enter to clear and do quests for (that are also randomly generated) and some static/set things mixed in depending on class or race or some other variables too right?
unkind: to me that premise sounds like about as fun as you could make a roguelike
gtrabbit: yeah-- or, could have a persistent overworld (would be a lot easier) with randomly generated dungeons, etc.
unkind: ya
unkind: that doesnt really matter
gtrabbit: yeah. I'm not really thinking out at the high level of like plot development and stuff yet
gtrabbit: so, that could go a lot of ways
gtrabbit: but, unless you're happy with a totally watered down/pointless story, then you have to have the overworld be static.... like, same towns, geography, etc.
unkind: ahh
unkind: yes, so the solution is
unkind: keep the towns static
unkind: keep the world map static
unkind: but make the contents of everything random, for the most part
unkind: except quest stuff
gtrabbit: yeah. Insofar as the world map goes, I like how ToME did it
unkind: ya me too
gtrabbit: so. stuff is kinda in the same place, but once you go in, it's going to be different
unkind: only issue i have with ToME
unkind: is the early game maps get
unkind: so repetitive
gtrabbit: difficulty curve on that game was way off, too
unkind: so if we just totally randomly generated the zone itself it'd never get boring
unkind: ya that's what happens when you have 1 guy doing 100% of everything (dark god in tome's case)
gtrabbit: yeah... and then like... ToME had different classes start in different areas.... but that was essentially pointless. you could just walk out and go anywhere else no problem
unkind: yeah
unkind: i like the idea of spawning into a town
gtrabbit: would ideally like to have the plot/story play out differently depending on where you start out, who you are, etc.
unkind: getting to buy some loot
unkind: the heading out for X noob quest to X randomly generated dungeon
unkind: be able to do that in like 3-5 minutes of opening the game
unkind: would be good
unkind: what do you think of elona's job board thing
unkind: that's always been my favorite part of the game, the questing
gtrabbit: hmmmm... might be possible to figure out something similar to that.... but, might be necessary to limit how many jobs appear to prevent people from just grinding to victory
gtrabbit: but, perhaps like each town has a set number of quests.... taking some quests might prevent you from doing other ones....
unkind: that could be a really good thing
unkind: maybe some optional challenges per town too
gtrabbit: the job boards being kinda like minor stuff as a way of filling time in between the big parts of the major story arc
unkind: finding a way to prevent grinding will be difficult
unkind: thats a problem in any roguelike really
gtrabbit: yeah. if we wanted to write all the quests by hand, rather than having them be random (go get me a [cake]), then we could have a lot of cool stuff to do with those.... like mini plots
gtrabbit: yeah. I think some kinda level cap would be necessary..... but that shouldn't feel arbitrary
unkind: ya, so like, that's a really good idea, because it helps with pace
unkind: to have set questing like that
unkind: but i think having lots of side quests that are random could be fun too, so every game doesnt feel the same
gtrabbit: like. ToME did a pretty good job of basically making it so you run out of stuff to do right around the level cap
gtrabbit: if you hit level cap and there's still a ton of stuff to do, that feels lame
unkind: ya
unkind: they just cap monster level
unkind: could be that simple
unkind: monsters in certain areas scale with you
unkind: to X point
unkind: then stop
gtrabbit: right. that could work
unkind: so, if we had a nonstop quest generator going, it could still theoretically work with static quests that'd be more like actual milestones
unkind: could quest for loot and xp till a point
unkind: then move forward with the story to advance the game
unkind: and the enemy level cap (in X new area)
gtrabbit: possibly.... completing the milestone quests would be the only way to unlock higher level random quests
unkind: yep
unkind: i think that's perfect
gtrabbit: so, you couldn't go from 1 to cap just on random stuff
unkind: ya
gtrabbit: makes it so there will always be danger / challenges. can't just go into every dungeon totally confident because you've been grinding for days
unkind: right in the random quest description box we could have like, monster level, the boss monster, the amount of floors, the dungeon type, the reward you get in town etc
unkind: could all be randomly generated
unkind: would be sweet
